README.md, before:

Cloud4All---Context-Aware-Server
================================

Description
-----------

The Context Aware Server (CAS) developed in NodeJs provides a platform that collects, stores and process the data from sensors and when some triggers are fired it sends the processed data to a client in json format. Configuration, Sensors and Users are stored in MongoDb and new data is cached in Redis and it can be eventually saved to MongoDb depending on configuration.


License
-------

This project has been developed by Barcelona Digital Health department. Device reporter is shared under New BSD license. This project folder includes a license file. You can share and distribute this project and built software using New BSD license. Please, send any feedback to http://www.cloud4all.info


Installation
------------

Download de zip file and uncompress it.

	cd Cloud4All---Context-Aware-Server-master
	npm install

It will install all needed packages that can be found in package.json file. Aftwards, you need to install Redis and Mongo databases. In ubuntu/debian

	$ apt-get install redis-server


Quick Start & Examples
----------------------

The best way to get started with the CAS is running it using node

```bash
node app.js
```

Then you can then send a POST request to the CAS to add a new sensor. For example, you can send the sample in test/data folder

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST --data @test/data/new-device-sample.json http://localhost:8888/devices
```
Afterwards you can send a POST request to the CAS to add data to the new sensor.

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST --data @test/data/sensor-sample-data.json http://localhost:8888/sensors/{uuid}/data
```
And get all the data stored in CAS from that sensor

```bash
curl http://localhost:8888/sensors/1/data
```

Setup
-----

CAS can be configured using a Restful API. To setup a new user or sensor configuration, send a POST request to /configs/ where _ref indicates the :id of the user or sensor.

```json
{
	"_ref": "517686388661d24a16000006",
	"config": {
        "triggers": {
            "onNewData": {
                "onConfig": "getNewData",
                "onData": "getSumData",
                "onAggregated" : "threshold",
                "onTriggered": "getNearUsers",
                "onNearby": "sendData",
                "onSent": "storeData",
                "onStored": "ack",
                "diffRadius": "10",
                "threshold": "5",
                "maxDistance": 1
            },
            "scheduling": {
                "data": "mean",
                "time": "60"
            }
        },
        "receiver": {
            "host": "localhost",
            "port": "8889",
            "path": "/receiver"
        }
    }
}
```

Updating the configuration is possible sending a POST request to /configs/:id where id is the id of the sensor or user. You can also get a specific config system. Use GET to retrieve the value from key config parameter from id configuration:

	GET /configs/:id

Finally, you can delete users, configs and devices sending a delete request to specific :id:

	DEL /configs/:id
	DEL /devices/:id
	DEL /users/:id


Triggering System
-----------------

When new data arrives to the Context awareness server, it fires a "onNewData" event. Afterwards, a listener gets the sensor configuration from the mongo database. Then the trigger system will emit specific events depending on the configuration. These events will collect, process the data and send the data to the receiver if the trigger (for example the threshold) is surpassed. If nearby options are activated, it will search the near users and it can afterwards send the user's profile complemented with the context data.

For example, using the sensor:1 configuration above, when new data arrives, the trigger system will collect only new data "getNewData" from the sensor, will sum "getSumData" it and then uses a simple threshold "threshold" method to know if this sum is above the required value "5", if it is such the case, it will send then search the near users "getNearUsers" and will send the new data "sendData" to the "localhost" receiver and also store it to MongoDb "storeData".

### Aggregation Methods

	sum = sum of all values
	mean = mean of all values
	max = max of all values
	min = min of all values
	last = last of new values

### Data Query methods

	all = all stored data
	new = only new data

### Trigger methods

1. threshold = triggered when the value is above a threshold. threshold value must be defined. `"threshold": "{number}"`
2. diffRadius = triggered when there is a the last new value `y` and the last sent value `x` do comply the inequattion `|y - x| > {number} / 100 * x` where `{number}` is the defined value in configuration `"diffRadius": "{number}"`. Default 10%.

### User Filter methods

1. getNearUsers = once triggered, check which users are in nearby. $MaxDistance can be configured.

### Send methods

1. SendData: once system is triggered, it sends the data received via json to a server (configured in settings).
2. SendProfile: once system is triggered, it sends users filetered from User Filter Methods. only useful when Filter methods are applied.


Running Tests
-------------

Test are implemented using mocha. To run the test suite first invoke the following command within the repo, installing the development dependencies:

	npm install
	make test


Contributors
------------

	Guillem Serra from Barcelona Digital

Commit message:

added first real time web socket flowmanager

README.md, after:

Cloud4All---Context-Aware-Server
================================

Description
-----------

The Context Aware Server (CAS) developed in NodeJs provides a platform that collects, stores and process the data from sensors and when some triggers are fired it sends the processed data to a client in json format. Configuration, Sensors and Users are stored in MongoDb and new data is cached in Redis and it can be eventually saved to MongoDb depending on configuration.


License
-------

This project has been developed by Barcelona Digital Health department. Device reporter is shared under New BSD license. This project folder includes a license file. You can share and distribute this project and built software using New BSD license. Please, send any feedback to http://www.cloud4all.info


Installation
------------

Download de zip file and uncompress it.

	cd Cloud4All---Context-Aware-Server-master
	npm install

It will install all needed packages that can be found in package.json file. Aftwards, you need to install Redis and Mongo databases. In ubuntu/debian

	$ apt-get install redis-server


Quick Start & Examples
----------------------

The best way to get started with the CAS is running it using node

```bash
node app.js
```

Then you can then send a POST request to the CAS to add a new sensor. For example, you can send the sample in test/data folder

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST --data @test/data/new-device-sample.json http://localhost:8888/devices
```
Afterwards you can send a POST request to the CAS to add data to the new sensor.

```bash
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST --data @test/data/sensor-sample-data.json http://localhost:8888/sensors/{uuid}/data
```
And get all the data stored in CAS from that sensor

```bash
curl http://localhost:8888/sensors/{uuid}/data
```

Or also ask for data from :start time and :end time in ISO-8601 format using following request

```bash
curl http://localhost:8888/sensors/{uuid}/data/start/2013-04-22T00:35:43.12Z/end/2013-04-22T01:15:43.28Z
```


Setup
-----

CAS can be configured using a Restful API. To setup a new user or sensor configuration, send a POST request to /configs/ where _ref indicates the :id of the user or sensor.

```json
{
	"_ref": "517686388661d24a16000006",
	"config": {
        "triggers": {
            "onNewData": {
                "onConfig": "getNewData",
                "onData": "getSumData",
                "onAggregated" : "threshold",
                "onTriggered": "getNearUsers",
                "onNearby": "sendData",
                "onSent": "storeData",
                "onStored": "ack",
                "diffRadius": "10",
                "threshold": "5",
                "maxDistance": 1
            },
            "scheduling": {
                "data": "mean",
                "time": "60"
            }
        },
        "receiver": {
            "host": "localhost",
            "port": "8889",
            "path": "/receiver"
        }
    }
}
```

Updating the configuration is possible sending a POST request to /configs/:id where id is the id of the sensor or user. You can also get a specific config system. Use GET to retrieve the value from key config parameter from id configuration:

	GET /configs/:id

Finally, you can delete users, configs and devices sending a delete request to specific :id:

	DEL /configs/:id
	DEL /devices/:id
	DEL /users/:id


Triggering System
-----------------

When new data arrives to the Context awareness server, it fires a "onNewData" event. Afterwards, a listener gets the sensor configuration from the mongo database. Then the trigger system will emit specific events depending on the configuration. These events will collect, process the data and send the data to the receiver if the trigger (for example the threshold) is surpassed. If nearby options are activated, it will search the near users and it can afterwards send the user's profile complemented with the context data.

For example, using the sensor:1 configuration above, when new data arrives, the trigger system will collect only new data "getNewData" from the sensor, will sum "getSumData" it and then uses a simple threshold "threshold" method to know if this sum is above the required value "5", if it is such the case, it will send then search the near users "getNearUsers" and will send the new data "sendData" to the "localhost" receiver and also store it to MongoDb "storeData".

### Aggregation Methods

	sum = sum of all values
	mean = mean of all values
	max = max of all values
	min = min of all values
	last = last of new values

### Data Query methods

	all = all stored data
	new = only new data

### Trigger methods

1. threshold = triggered when the value is above a threshold. threshold value must be defined. `"threshold": "{number}"`
2. diffRadius = triggered when there is a the last new value `y` and the last sent value `x` do comply the inequattion `|y - x| > {number} / 100 * x` where `{number}` is the defined value in configuration `"diffRadius": "{number}"`. Default 10%.

### User Filter methods

1. getNearUsers = once triggered, check which users are in nearby. $MaxDistance can be configured.

### Send methods

1. SendData: once system is triggered, it sends the data received via json to a server (configured in settings).
2. SendProfile: once system is triggered, it sends users filetered from User Filter Methods. only useful when Filter methods are applied.


Running Tests
-------------

Test are implemented using mocha. To run the test suite first invoke the following command within the repo, installing the development dependencies:

	npm install
	make test


Contributors
------------

	Guillem Serra from Barcelona Digital
